CHAPTER VII—GRATITUDE
The illustrations given in the last chapter will have conveyed to the reader the fact
that the first step toward getting rich is to convey the idea of your wants to the formless
substance.
This is true, and you will see that in order to do so, it becomes necessary to relate yourself
to the formless intelligence in a harmonious way.
To secure this harmonious relation is a matter of such primary and vital importance that
I shall give some space to its discussion here, and give you instructions which, if
you will follow them, will be certain to bring you into perfect unity of mind with God.
The whole process of mental adjustment and atonement can be summed up in one word—gratitude.
First, you believe that there is one intelligent substance, from which all things proceed.
Second, you believe that this substance gives you everything you desire.
And third, you relate yourself to it by a feeling of deep and profound gratitude.
Many people who order their lives rightly in all other ways are kept in poverty by their
lack of gratitude.
Having received one gift from God, they cut the wires which connect them with Him by failing
to make acknowledgement.
It is easy to understand that the nearer we live to the source of wealth, the more wealth
we shall receive.
And it is easy also to understand that the soul that is always grateful lives in closer
touch with God than the one which never looks to Him in thankful acknowledgement.
The more gratefully we fix our minds on the Supreme when good things come to us, the more
good things we will receive, and the more rapidly they will come.
And the reason simply is that the mental attitude of gratitude draws the mind into closer touch
with the source from which the blessings come.
If it is a new thought to you, that gratitude brings your whole mind into closer harmony
with the creative energies of the universe, consider it well, and you will see that it
is true.
The good things you already have, have come to you along the line of obedience to certain
laws.
Gratitude will lead your mind out along the ways by which things come, and it will keep
you in close harmony with creative thought and prevent you from falling into competitive
thought.
Gratitude alone can keep you looking toward the All, and prevent you from falling into
the error of thinking of the supply as limited, and to do that would be fatal to your hopes.
There is a law of gratitude, and it is absolutely necessary that you should observe the law,
if you are to get the results you seek.
The law of gratitude is the natural principle that action and reaction are always equal
and in opposite directions.
The grateful outreaching of your mind in thankful praise to the Supreme is a liberation or expenditure
of force.
It cannot fail to reach that to which it addressed, and the reaction is an instantaneous movement
towards you.
Draw nigh unto God, and He will draw nigh unto you.
That is a statement of psychological truth.
And if your gratitude is strong and constant, the reaction in formless substance will be
strong and continuous.
The movement of the things you want will be always toward you.
Notice the grateful attitude that Jesus took, how He always seems to be saying,
I thank Thee, Father, that Thou hearest me.
You cannot exercise much power without gratitude, for it is gratitude that keeps you connected
with power.
But the value of gratitude does not consist solely in getting you more blessings in the
future.
Without gratitude, you cannot long keep from dissatisfied thoughts regarding things as
they are.
The moment you permit your mind to dwell with dissatisfaction upon things as they are, you
begin to lose ground.
You fix attention upon the common, the ordinary, the poor, and the squalid and mean, and your
mind takes the form of these things.
Then you will transmit these forms or mental images to the formless, and the common, the
poor, the squalid, the mean will come to you.
To permit your mind to dwell upon the inferior is to become inferior and to surround yourself
with inferior things.
On the other hand, to fix your attention on the best is to surround yourself with the
best and to become the best.
The creative power within us makes us into the image of that to which we give our attention.
We are thinking substance, and thinking substance always takes the form of that to which it
thinks about.
The grateful mind is constantly fixed upon the best.
Therefore, it tends to become the best.
It takes the form or character of the best, and will receive the best.
Also, faith is born of gratitude.
The grateful mind continually expects good things, and expectation becomes faith.
The reaction of gratitude upon one's own mind produces faith, and every outgoing wave
of grateful thanksgiving increases faith.
He who has no feeling of gratitude cannot long retain a living faith, and without a
living faith you cannot get rich by the creative method, as we shall see in the following chapters.
It is necessary, then, to cultivate the habit of being grateful for every good thing that
comes to you, and to give thanks continuously.
And because all things have contributed to your advancement, you should include all things
in your gratitude.
Do not waste time thinking or talking about the shortcomings or wrong actions of plutocrats
or trust magnets.
Their organization of the world has made your opportunity.
All you get really comes to you because of them.
Do not rage against corrupt politicians.
If it were not for politicians we should fall into anarchy, and your opportunity would be
greatly lessened.
God has worked a long time and very patiently to bring us up to where we are in industry
and government, and He is going right on with His work.
There is not the least doubt that He will do away the plutocrats, trust magnets, captains
of industry, and politicians as soon as they can be spared.
But in the meantime, behold, they are all very good.
Remember that they are all helping to arrange the lines of transmission along which your
riches will come to you, and be grateful to them all.
This will bring you into harmonious relations with the good in everything, and the good
in everything will move toward you.